
Bollards, barricades, and fencing are all forms of physical ways to block access into a building. This is the first line of defense involve in physical security when trying to protect the integrity of your technology infrastructure and data. A man trap is a system that requires a form of authentication for one person to gain access. For example, you are required to have a train pass to gain access inside the train, one train pass allows that one individual access to the train, while the person behind you will have to proceed as you did with providing valid authentication as well to gain access (this prevents piggyback attacks). Another form of physical security are alarms. This is to alert someone of potential unauthorized access. Guards are also necessary, especially during moment when alarms do go off, guards are needed to prevent and capture unauthorized individuals. Signage is a way to inform individuals that if you do not have the required authority, you should not enter said area because it's for authorized personnel only (this is to prevent ignorance or individuals who claim ignorance when they were really trying to sneak in). Cameras and CCTV are very important for physical security, typically dedicated guards/individuals are hired to take watch of all of the security cameras in the building to identify and alarm when anyone is trying to access unauthorized areas. There are different types of cameras (motion recognition and object detection). Faraday cages are used to block electromagnetic interference (can be used to disable forms of physical security like alarms or cameras, and can be used more maliciously like to corrupt data). USB data blockers exist to prevent people from being able to walk up to system and transfer confidential data onto their USB and walk away without anyone noticing.

Physical Security - Sensors
- Motion detectors
- Noise detectors
- Moisture detectors (to prevent issues like electrostatic discharge or condensation buildup, either of which could destroy hardware if the climate is not controlled properly)
- Temperature monitoring
- Proximity reader (key fobs/smart cards)

Physical Security - Locks
- Biometrics (Iris scanner, finger print, voice recognition)
- Electronic (Smart cards, PIN, Key fob)
- Physical (key)
- Cable Locks (for devices to prevent people from being able to steal them)

Physical Security - Personnel
- Guards
- Reception (visitor logs, access control rosters)
- Robot Sentries
- Two-person control (this is to separate duties so one person doesn't hold all of the power/access)

Physical Security - Secure Aeras
- Air gapped networks/systems (there is no direct network connection to these networks/systems)
- Vaults and safes
- Hot isle/cold isle (this is a strategically placed climate control system to regulate air to properly cool datacenters/server rooms to ensure systems don't overheat/crash)