
**Cryptographic Protocols - WEP**
* Weird Equivalent Privacy
	* Weak Security
	* Uses a **static** key
	* 64-bit or 128-bit key (weak)
	* RC4 stream cipher
	* CRC checksum (this is a 24 bit checksum, due to the low bit on the key and CRC checksum, this is suspectable to replay attacks.)

**Cryptographic Protocols - WPA**
* Wi-Fi Protected Access (old protocol)
	* Weak encryption
	* Uses Temporal Key Integrity Protocol
	* Per-packet encryption
	* RC4 stream cipher
	* Message Integrity Check (this is a 48-bit checksum, better but still not enough)

**Cryptographic Protocols - WPA2**
* Wi-Fi Protected Access 2
	* Stronger
	* Uses CCMP
	* Advanced Encryption Standard (AES)
	* 128-bit key (this should be at minimum the standard)

**Cryptographic Protocols - WPA3**
* Wi-Fi Protected Access 3
	* Strongest
	* Uses SAE
	* Uses 128-bit or 192-bit encryption

**Authentication Protocol** [More Information](obsidian://open?vault=Obsidian&file=Obsidian%20Vault%2FSecurity%2B%20SY0-601%20Certification%20Notes%2FITPRO.TV%20Study%20Notes%2FChapter%203%20-%20Identity%20and%20Access%20Management%2F6.%20Authentication%20Protocols%20-%20EAP%20and%20802.1X)
* EAP/PEAP (Relies on certificates, you have to have a certificate on the client and the connecting device. It establishes an encrypted tunnel before the communication even happens)
* EAP-FAST
* EAP-TLS
* EAP-TTLS

**Authentication Methods - Pre-shared Key**
A pre-shared key is essentially a password. It's a passphrase that you have to have on both ends in order to join the network. Another term is **PSK**.

**Authentication Methods - Enterprise**
Requires a higher level of security, when you use WPA2 Enterprise for example, it requires users to point to the RADIUS server/port where the user will do RADIUS (remote access dial in user service) based authentication with 802.1X compliant AP/WLC devices.

**Authentication Methods - Wi-Fi Protected Setup**
Essentially was created to be the "easy button" for Wi-Fi setup (push button security). The problem is only having an 8 digit PIN as your security provides better convenience, but terrible levels of security throughput.

**Authentication Methods - Captive Portal**
A perfect example of a captive portal is attempting to gain access to the hotel's Wi-Fi. When connecting it'll bring up a page where you are required to provide a username, password, and sometimes an access code which is typically your room number (or any other code/pass-phrase given to you from the authorized vendor of that Wi-Fi).

**Installation Considerations**
* Channel overlay
	* Congestion
* Wireless Access Point (WAP) placement (to prevent people from stealing/connecting/breaking these devices)
* Heatmaps and Site Surveys (shows the coverage of your access points to ensure connectivity/overall coverage)
* Controller and AP security