
### Host Security - Antivirus and Anti-malware
- Signatures/definitions
- Behavior monitoring
	- Monitoring to see if a process, program, script, etc, is behaving appropriately. If it's not, the system will be able to identify the rogue code to stop the virus from infecting the system.
- Heuristics and AI
- Cloud-based submissions
	- Using big repositories to document and track viruses, malware, etc, to make it easier for the antivirus/anti-malware to identify threats.
- Sandboxing vs. quarantining
	- Quarantining: The system has identified the piece of malware/virus, locks that file/software down to prevent it from infecting the system, and will delete it from the drive.
	- Sandboxing: The system will create an isolated environment like a virtual machine, and will "allow it" to run in the isolated environment to learn more about the program the system is suspicious about.

### Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) Solutions

* Endpoint threat detection
* Monitor's endpoint behavior
	* Real time
* Uses indicators of Compromise
* Examples
	* Fireeye EDR
	* Datashield EDR

### Data Loss Prevention/Protection
* Protection of data in motion
* Monitor and control data movement
* Data classification
* Examples
	* Personally Identifiable Information (PII)
	* Research and Development
	* Trade secrets

### Host-based Intrusion Detection and Prevention
* Host-based intrusion detection
	* Passive software
	* Monitors, detection and alerts
* Host-based intrusion prevention
	* Active software
	* Monitors, detections, alerts
	* Countermeasures

### Host-based Firewalls
* Monitor traffic on the host
* Implicit deny
	* This refers to the default behavior of denying all network traffic that is not explicitly allowed by the firewall rules. When a packet or connection attempt reaches the host-based firewall, and there's no specific rule permitting that traffic, the firewall automatically denies it.
* Monitoring
	* Disk
	* Memory
	* Network

### Next Generation Firewalls
* Marketing term
* HIDS/HIPS
	* HIDS: Host-based intrusion detection systems
		* Monitor and analyze activities on individual computer systems or hosts, such as servers, workstations, or endpoints. HIDS focuses on detecting and responding to potential security incidents that occur within the host environment.
	* HIPS: Host-based intrusion prevention system
		* Protects your system from malware and unwanted activity attempting to negatively affect your computer.
* DLP
	* Data loss prevention
* DNS filtering
* URL filtering