
Account Types - Administrators
	Administrators are accounts with full system access. These accounts need to be protected not only from "threat actors" (hackers), but also from standard users. The principle of least privilege is where if a user/account does not need to access or perform a certain task/file/piece of information, they should not have that ability. The more "standard users" have access to things they don't NEED access to, the more risk/points of failure there are for data to become compromised.

Account Types - Standard Users
	Standard Users are accounts that can perform most activities. These accounts can perform the access that they need to complete their daily tasks. These accounts cannot make system-wide changes.

Account Types - Guest Accounts
	Guest accounts are isolated use cases. A guest account is an account that has access to the computer, but doesn't have access to other locations on the computer, no access to user data or other functionality that a standard user or above may have. Another example of a guest account would be a Kiosk account or shared computer (like in a computer lab).

Account Types - Service Accounts
	Service accounts are a necessity. Implement managed service accounts. With these types of accounts, it's important to remember to remove unnecessary privileges. For example, if an admin needs a certain service to be able to access a certain database and pull something off of it and deliver said information to a web application that gets sent to an end user. That should be the only functionality that specific service account should have.

Account Types - Shared Accounts
	Shared accounts are accounts that multiple individuals will have access to/know the information to log into said shared account. Due to multiple people knowing the login information of a shared account, this can cause security risks/vulnerabilities. Another issue is when multiple people have access to one account, it becomes very difficult to find who may have been responsible for the account becoming compromised if that were to ever happen.