
EAP, Extensible Authentication Protocol it's a framework that's used in wireless networks. **EAP does not do the authentication**, but it transports authentication technologies. It's an **expansion of PPP** authentication. EAP **supports multiple authentication methods**. EAP methods: **EAP-FAST** (Cisco created technology that's used in wireless networks and point to point communications. This expands on PPP/it performs session authentication). **EAP-TLS** (This allows certificate based authentication, mutual based authentication, smart card authentication, and token based authentication). EAP-TTLS (This is a tunneled transport layer security. It's an extension of EAP-TLS, it was created for creating as secure tunnel, once that secure tunnel has been established you then send the encrypted authentication between the endpoints.)

802.1X is primarily used in wireless networks, but it can be used in wired networks too. This is port-based authentication. 802.1X uses components to communicate between you and the endpoint for encrypted tunneling for sending authentication information/requests. The components it uses are supplicant (wireless client like a phone or laptop), an authenticator (802.1X compliant AP/WLAN controller, and an authenticator server (RADIUS server). The authenticator is like the gate keeper, the supplicant will make an authentication request, the authenticator will pass that request on to the authentication server, the auth server will then provide the supplicant a challenge (requests a valid username/password) through the authenticator. Once the supplicant provides a valid user/password then the auth server will open the port necessary for the supplicant to move through the authenticator and into the network.