
RADIUS, Remote Authentication Dial-in User Service. This is an open (industry standard) standard that has been around for a very long time. RADIUS uses UDP ports (ports 1812 and 1813 authentication requests. Other "older ports" are 1645 and 1646.) This allows us to centralize "triple  A", authentication (allow valid users in the network), authorization (knowing and allowing users their proper permissions/capabilities), and accounting (determined what people have done in your network). Access client (user attempting authentication access) will create an access request that will be sent to the RADIUS Clients (Dial-up Server/VPN Server/802.1X compliant AP), this request will be processed and sent as a RADIUS message to the RADIUS Server to where it will send back a RADIUS challenge (requiring the access client to provide a valid user/password) and that user will either be allowed in/authenticated, or the user will be denied if the information the access client sends is not valid.

Terminal Access Controller Access Control System (TACACS), while RADIUS is an open standard, TACACS is Cisco proprietary. TACACS+ is an open standard, it was originally designed by Cisco, but Cisco allowed others to build on it making it an open standard. TACACS allows you to separate the "triple A" roles (this can make the process of implementing TACACS more expensive and require more infrastructure). Unlike RADIUS, TACACS+ uses TCP and encryption. RADIUS does use encryption, but it only encrypts the password. In TACACS+, the entire process is encrypted.


Differences between RADIUS and TACACS+

RADIUS:
1. Authentication, Authorization, and Accounting
2. Lack of multiprotocol support
3. Uses UDP (password only encrypted)
4. Open standard

TACACS+:
1. Separates Authentication, Authorization, and Accounting
2. Multiprotocol support
3. Uses TCP (Full encryption)
4. Proprietary (TACACS is, TACACS+ technically isn't, it just isn't an open standard/as popular like RADIUS)