
Access Control Schemes were created for controlling access to resources and to minimize risk. 
Mandatory Access Control (MAC): This refers to a type of access control where the server will determine what level of access a "subject" (an authorized user) will have when attempting to access an "object" (file/information/folder/server). An example of this would be if you have clearance to access confidential information, but not top secret information, you can access confidential data, but you wouldn't be able to gain access to any information that was labeled a higher security above confidential. Discretionary Access Control (DAC) has the same concept with "subjects" and "objects". A perfect example of DAC would be Windows Permissions. When an Owner or Administrator creates a file, they have the ability to set access levels to said file if they want to allow others certain levels of access/capabilities to the file they created. Role-based Access Control (RBAC) is where you have a predefined role that you put on a user that grants them the specific access/permissions that come with that role. Rule-based Access Control (RBAC) is predefined criteria (rules), a good example are the rules put in place on a firewall to allow/block specific in-bound and out-bound traffic. Attribute-based Access Control allows us to expand on the basic prior models that don't allow for a lot of extra flexibility. Some of the capabilities of Attribute-based Access Control are User Attributes: (Name, Department, Position, Building number, Time Zone) and Resource Attributes: (Name, Type(extension), Modification Time). Conditional Access are previously defined conditions. For example, location, operating system, device, IP Address, and Subnet. Privilege Access Management (PAM) is a way to control and monitor access, for example users with high-level permissions. Another example is comprehensive auditing, being able to see/log internal user activity as well as external vendor activity.